---
layout: post 
title: Myths (Common Cold)
---

#### Susceptibility to colds requires a weakened immune system

Healthy people with normal immune systems are highly susceptible to cold
virus infection once the virus enters the nose. In volunteers studies,
approximately 95% of normal adults became infected when virus was
dropped into the nose

Of people who become infected, only 75% develop symptoms with a cold.
The other 25% have virus growing in the nose but have no symptoms. They
have an \"asymptomatic infection\".

Why people sometimes become infected but do not develop cold symptoms is
a mystery. One clue is that in such instances the person may not be
producing the normal amount of certain inflammatory mediators, the
natural body chemicals which cause cold symptoms. If this theory is
correct, then people with active immune systems may be more prone to
developing cold symptoms than people with less active immune systems!

#### Central heating dries the mucus membranes of the nose and makes a person more susceptible to catching a cold

As discussed above, a cold virus does not need the help of dry mucus
membranes to initiate a cold once it enters the nose

The nasal mucus membrane is very resistant to the effects of low
humidity. Volunteers placed in chambers where the humidity was
dramatically lowered (9% relative humidity, such as found in a desert)
still have normal clearance function of the nasal mucus membrane. Low
humidity makes the nose feel dry but the mucus membrane still continues
to work normally.

The cold season in the United States typically begins in late August and
early September at a time when temperatures are still moderate and
central heating is not being used. September is the time of a major
common cold epidemic despite people not being exposed to the drying
effects of central heating.

#### Becoming cold or chilled leads to catching a cold

As discussed above, almost everybody becomes infected whether they are
chilled or not, if cold virus is dropped into the nose.

One study has looked at this question. It was found that colds were no
more frequent or severe in volunteers who were chilled than those who
were not.

#### Having cold symptoms is good for you because they help you get over a cold, therefore you should not treat a cold

Approximately 25% of people who get a cold virus infection do not
develop symptoms and yet they get over the infection as well as people
who do have symptoms.

The nose can only respond to irritative events such as a cold virus
infection or dust or pollen entering the nose in a limited number of
ways. Sneezing and nasal secretions are useful in removing dust and
pollen from the nose but do not eliminate cold viruses since the virus
is multiplying inside the nasal cells where it is safe.

Nose blowing propels nasal secretions into the sinus cavity. Nasal
secretions contain viruses, bacteria, and inflammatory mediators all of
which are able to produce inflammation in the sinus cavity. This may
lead to secondary bacterial infection.

Nose blowing, sneezing, and coughing benefit the virus by helping spread
it to other people.

Commercially available and FDA approved cold treatments are safe and
effective. It makes sense to use them because they benefit the cold
sufferer and may help prevent the spread of colds.

#### Drinking milk causes increased nasal mucus during a cold

Milk and mucus may look alike, but milk is digested like any other
protein and is not specifically converted into nasal mucus.

An Australian study was actually done in volunteers to address this
question. It showed that people drinking lots of milk had no more nasal
mucus than those not drinking milk.

#### You should feed a cold

The origin of this old saying is obscure. There is no scientific
evidence that excess eating will cure a cold.

On the other hand, eating tasty food will not make a cold worse and may
help the cold victim feel better.

[Category:Fun](Category:Fun "wikilink")
