---
layout: post 
title: Myths (Eye)
---

#### \"Eating carrots will improve your eyesight\"

**False**. Carrots are rich in Vitamin A, which is important for a
well-balanced diet. However, eating carrots or any other food that is
high in Vitamin A will not improve your vision. In fact, eating large
amounts of Vitamin A or other vitamins can be very harmful.

#### \"The best way to cure a black eye is to put a steak on it\"

**False**. Steak does nothing for a black eye. What you should do is to
apply ice cold compresses to the eye and see an ophthalmologist (eye
doctor) immediately.

#### \"Sitting too close to the television will hurt your eyes\"

**False**. Children have a greater ability to focus up close without
strain than adults and often develop the habit of sitting close to the
television. Children and adults who are nearsighted may sit close to
enable them to see the picture more clearly. There is no evidence that
sitting close to the television will damage your eyes. Eyes may become
tired from sitting too close for long periods, if the light in the room
is too dim, or if the picture screen is out of focus. If your eyes
become tired, give them a rest and check the room lighting and the
picture focus.

#### \"Wearing contact lenses will prevent nearsightedness from getting worse\"

**False**. There is no evidence that wearing contact lenses will either
correct nearsightedness or prevent it from getting worse.

#### \"Children usually outgrow crossed eyes\"

**False**. To avoid seeing double, a child with crossed eyes will use
only one eye at a time. The unused or crossed eye may never develop good
vision unless the child is forced to use it, usually by patching the
good eye. If you think your child has crossed eyes, he or she should be
examined by an ophthalmologist. It is generally best to treat crossed
eyes as soon as possible.

#### \"Children do not need eye examinations until they are in school\"

**False**. It is recommended that every child\'s eyes be examined
regularly starting at birth. Some eye problems such as crossed eyes or
amblyopia (lazy eye) can result in permanent loss of sight in the
affected eye if not detected and treated before the child is five or six
years old.

#### \"Cataracts can not be removed until they are ripe\"

**False**. A cataract can be removed when it decreases vision enough to
be a handicap to the patient, at any age. How much decrease in vision is
disabling varies from person to person.

#### \"Cataracts can be removed with a laser\"

**False**. A cataract can only be removed by surgery. A cataract cannot
grow back after it is removed. However, sometimes after cataract surgery
a membrane inside the eye becomes cloudy causing vision to decrease. An
opening in the membrane can be made using a laser.

#### \"Eyes can be transplanted\"

**False**. It is not possible to transplant a whole eye. The eye is
connected to the brain by a small nerve called the optic nerve. If this
nerve is cut it cannot be reconnected, making it impossible to remove
the eye and replace it with another one. The cornea, the clear covering
on the front part of the eye, has been successfully transplanted for
many years. Some people incorrectly confuse a cornea transplant with an
eye transplant.

\_\_NOTOC\_\_
