---
layout: post 
title: ScratchCars
---

Toyota MR2 TOYOTA MR2 2.0 GT T/BAR LEATH TOYOTA MR2 2.0 GT 92/J T/BAR
LEATHER, UK CAR,ALARM,IMMOBILISER,FSH, E/WINDOWS,C/LOCKING,ALLOYS,LONG
MOT, RED,5SPEED,STEREO,REAR SPOILER, F/FOGS,TAKEN IN PX,HPI CLEAR ONLY
£1295 PX POSS DELIVERY C/CARDS excepted 1460 no reg insurance ex and
mart \-- import 7mths dec 90k putney 07875 713113 1550
<http://www.gumtree.com/london/39/28917139.html> \-\--
<http://www.gumtree.com/london/20/28407020.html> Mr2 Tbar 1year Mot
(£1,100) TOYOTA MR2, 1993 (L), Manual Petrol, 80,700 miles For sale is
my MR2 , It is in excellent condition inside and out for a car that is
now 15 years old though you would not think so by its appearance, it
still looks stunning when polished and drives just as an MR2 should with
plenty of power and the MR2s legendary road holding. The car is 15 years
old and does have the odd car park dent but as far as I can tell there
is nothing mechanical or expensive to fix.

Bad points: Dent on boot A couple of stone chips on bonnet.

Good points: Mot untill september 2009 and Tax until end of September,
Double din DVD player with TV, radio, mp3, cd, Aux input and gps, Dual
4inch jap cut cat back exhaust that makes a nice rumble but not too
loud, Rare Enkei Rs III staggered fitment alloys (Valued at Â£250 per
wheel), T-bar roof that is ideal for summer and does not leak, Aircon, 5
speed manual, 132,000 km (82000miles) \-- Nissan 100NX Pacific T-Top 95
(£700) 1.6l, black N-reg (95) targa topped 100NX Pacific. I\'ve had this
car for four years now and she\'s reliable and with the removable glass
roof, fun in the summer too. One of the last made by Nissan. 87k 12m mot
<http://www.gumtree.com/london/18/28978718.html> \-- 87000 MILES 10
MONTHS MOT LEFT TAX 08/08 1.6 EXCELLENT RUNNER, VERY RELIABLE. FIRST TO
SEE WILL BUY. IDEAL FIRST CAR WITH TARGA ROOF. CONTACT A.J. FOR MORE
DETAILS. 07958267303
