---
layout: post 
title: RAID Types
---

\'Taken from
<http://searchstorage.techtarget.com/expert/KnowledgebaseAnswer/0,289625,sid5_gci1126527,00.html>\'

RAID used to stand for \"redundant array of inexpensive disks\". Today
the term has been updated to \"redundant array of independent disks\".
RAID is a way of grouping individual physical drives together to form
one bigger drive called a \"RAID set\". RAID can make many smaller disks
appear as one large disk to a server. The RAID set represents all the
smaller physical drives as one logical disk to your server. The logical
disk is called a LUN, or \"logical unit number\". Using RAID has two
main advantages. Better performance and higher availability, which means
it goes faster and breaks down less often.

### RAID benefits

Performance is increased because the server has more \"spindles\" to
read from or write to when data is accessed from a drive.

Availability is increased because the RAID controller can recreate lost
data from parity information. Parity is basically a checksum of the data
that was written to the disks, which gets written along with the
original data. RAID can be done in software on a host, such as Windows
\"FTDISK\" volumes, or in hardware on the storage controllers. The
server accessing the data on a hardware-based RAID set never knows that
one of the drives in the RAID set went bad. The controller recreates the
data that was lost when the drive went bad, by using the parity
information stored on the surviving disks in the RAID set.

There are a number of different ways drives can be grouped together to
form RAID sets. The different methods used to group drives are called
\"RAID types\". RAID types are numbered from 0 to 5. The numbers
represent the \"level\" of RAID being used. RAID levels 0, 1 and 5 are
the most common. Combinations of RAID types may be used together. For
example, you can create 2 RAID-0 sets, and then combine the RAID-0 sets
into a RAID-1 set. This will essentially give you the performance
benefits of RAID-0, with the availability benefits of RAID-1.

In order to survive multiple drive failures in a \"RAID-10\" setup, you
should create multiple RAID-1 mirrors, and then stripe across the
mirrors using RAID-0. As long as multiple drive failures occur in
separate mirror sets, the RAID set is still available. If you create 2
RAID-0 stripe sets and mirror those together, losing a single disk
within the stripe forces all access to occur from the mirrored stripe
set.

The RAID type you should use depends on the type of application you are
running on your server. RAID-0 is the fastest. RAID-1 is the most
reliable and RAID-5 is a good combination of both.

### RAID types

Below is a description of the different types of RAID that most commonly
used in SAN storage arrays. Not all storage array vendors support all
the various RAID types. Check with your vendor for the type of RAID that
is available with their storage.

RAID-0: RAID-0 is called disk \"striping\". All the data is spread out
in chunks across all the disks in the RAID set. RAID-0 has great
performance, because you spread out the load of storing data onto more
physical drives. There is no parity generated for RAID-0. Therefore
there is no overhead to write data to RAID-0 disks. RAID-0 is only good
for better performance, and not for high availability, since parity is
not generated for RAID-0 disks. RAID-0 requires at least two physical
disks.

RAID-1: RAID-1 is called disk mirroring. All the data is written to at
least two separate physical disks. The disks are essentially mirror
images of each other. If one of the disks fails, the other can be used
to retrieve data. Disk mirroring is good for very fast read operations.
It\'s slower when writing to the disks, since the data needs to be
written twice. RAID-1 requires at least two physical disks.

RAID 1+0: RAID 1+0, which is also called RAID-10, uses a combination of
disk mirroring and disk striping. The data is normally mirrored first
and then striped. Mirroring striped sets accomplishes the same task, but
is less fault tolerant than striping mirror sets. If you lose a drive in
a stripe set, all access to data must be from the other stripe set,
because stripe sets have no parity. RAID 0+1 requires a minimum of four
physical disks.

RAID-2: RAID-2 is no longer used.

RAID-3: RAID-3 uses something called a \"parity disk\" to store the
parity information generated by the RAID controller on a separate disk
from the actual data disks, instead of striping it with the data as in
RAID-5. This RAID type is not currently used very often, because it
performs poorly when there are a lot of little requests for data, as in
a database. This type performs well under applications that just want
one long sequential data transfer. Applications like video servers work
well with this RAID type. RAID-3 requires a minimum of three physical
disks.

RAID-4: RAID-4 is good for sequential data access, but is not used much.

RAID-5: RAID-5 uses disk striping with parity. The data is striped
across all the disks in the RAID set, along with the parity information
needed to reconstruct the data in case of disk failure. RAID-5 is the
most common method used, since it achieves a good balance between
performance and availability. RAID-5 requires at least three physical
disks.

Adaptive RAID: Adaptive RAID lets the RAID controller figure out how to
store the parity on the disks. It will choose between RAID-3 and RAID-5,
depending on which RAID set type will perform better with the type of
data being written to the disks.

RAID-6: RAID-6 increases reliability by utilizing 2 parity stripes,
which allows for 2 disk failures within the RAID set before data is
lost. RAID-6 is seen in SATA environments, and solutions that require
long data retention periods, such as data archiving, or disk-based
backup.

Regarding your question about the benefit of using more disks in a RAID
set than the minimum, the answer is you get more available storage and
more \"actuators\" or \"spindles\" for the OS to use. Most RAID arrays
use a maximum of 16 drives within a RAID set due to higher overhead and
diminishing returns in performance when exceeding that many drives. Up
to 8 seems to be a good rule of thumb for RAID-5 and RAID-10. If you
need more space, you can just create another RAID set with the other
disks. As another rule of thumb, try to keep different workload data
types on separate RAID sets. You can use RAID-10 for best performance
everywhere, but most budgets dictate the use of RAID-5 for database data
volumes, with RAID-1 or RAID-10 used on database log volumes. (the
database volumes can be highly random I/O, and the logs tend to be
sequential in nature).

Rebuild times depend on the kind of RAID. If you are using
software-based RAID, then more spindles within the group means longer
rebuild times. If it\'s hardware-based RAID, then rebuild times are
usually dictated by the size of the drives themselves, since the
hardware usually does the sparing in and out of the set. A 146 GB drive
takes longer to rebuild than a 73 GB drive.
