---
layout: post 
title: RAID Types
---

\'\'Taken from
<http://searchstorage.techtarget.com/expert/KnowledgebaseAnswer/0,289625,sid5_gci1126527,00.html>
\'\'

RAID used to stand for \"redundant array of inexpensive disks\". Today
the term has been updated to \"redundant array of independent disks\".
RAID is a way of grouping individual physical drives together to form
one bigger drive called a \"RAID set\". RAID can make many smaller disks
appear as one large disk to a server. The RAID set represents all the
smaller physical drives as one logical disk to your server. The logical
disk is called a LUN, or \"logical unit number\". Using RAID has two
main advantages. Better performance and higher availability, which means
it goes faster and breaks down less often.

### RAID benefits

Performance is increased because the server has more \"spindles\" to
read from or write to when data is accessed from a drive.

Availability is increased because the RAID controller can recreate lost
data from parity information. Parity is basically a checksum of the data
that was written to the disks, which gets written along with the
original data. RAID can be done in software on a host, such as Windows
\"FTDISK\" volumes, or in hardware on the storage controllers. The
server accessing the data on a hardware-based RAID set never knows that
one of the drives in the RAID set went bad. The controller recreates the
data that was lost when the drive went bad, by using the parity
information stored on the surviving disks in the RAID set.

There are a number of different ways drives can be grouped together to
form RAID sets. The different methods used to group drives are called
\"RAID types\". RAID types are numbered from 0 to 5. The numbers
represent the \"level\" of RAID being used. RAID levels 0, 1 and 5 are
the most common. Combinations of RAID types may be used together. For
example, you can create 2 RAID-0 sets, and then combine the RAID-0 sets
into a RAID-1 set. This will essentially give you the performance
benefits of RAID-0, with the availability benefits of RAID-1.

In order to survive multiple drive failures in a \"RAID-10\" setup, you
should create multiple RAID-1 mirrors, and then stripe across the
mirrors using RAID-0. As long as multiple drive failures occur in
separate mirror sets, the RAID set is still available. If you create 2
RAID-0 stripe sets and mirror those together, losing a single disk
within the stripe forces all access to occur from the mirrored stripe
set.

The RAID type you should use depends on the type of application you are
running on your server. RAID-0 is the fastest. RAID-1 is the most
reliable and RAID-5 is a good combination of both.

### RAID types

Below is a description of the different types of RAID that most commonly
used in SAN storage arrays. Not all storage array vendors support all
the various RAID types. Check with your vendor for the type of RAID that
is available with their storage.

RAID-0: RAID-0 is called disk \"striping\". All the data is spread out
in chunks across all the disks in the RAID set. RAID-0 has great
performance, because you spread out the load of storing data onto more
physical drives. There is no parity generated for RAID-0. Therefore
there is no overhead to write data to RAID-0 disks. RAID-0 is only good
for better performance, and not for high availability, since parity is
not generated for RAID-0 disks. RAID-0 requires at least two physical
disks.

RAID-1: RAID-1 is called disk mirroring. All the data is written to at
least two separate physical disks. The disks are essentially mirror
images of each other. If one of the disks fails, the other can be used
to retrieve data. Disk mirroring is good for very fast read operations.
It\'s slower when writing to the disks, since the data needs to be
written twice. RAID-1 requires at least two physical disks.

RAID 1+0: RAID 1+0, which is also called RAID-10, uses a combination of
disk mirroring and disk striping. The data is normally mirrored first
and then striped. Mirroring striped sets accomplishes the same task, but
is less fault tolerant than striping mirror sets. If you lose a drive in
a stripe set, all access to data must be from the other stripe set,
because stripe sets have no parity. RAID 0+1 requires a minimum of four
physical disks.

RAID-2: RAID-2 is no longer used.

RAID-3: RAID-3 uses something called a \"parity disk\" to store the
parity information generated by the RAID controller on a separate disk
from the actual data disks, instead of striping it with the data as in
RAID-5. This RAID type is not currently used very often, because it
performs poorly when there are a lot of little requests for data, as in
a database. This type performs well under applications that just want
one long sequential data transfer. Applications like video servers work
well with this RAID type. RAID-3 requires a minimum of three physical
disks.

RAID-4: RAID-4 is good for sequential data access, but is not used much.

RAID-5: RAID-5 uses disk striping with parity. The data is striped
across all the disks in the RAID set, along with the parity information
needed to reconstruct the data in case of disk failure. RAID-5 is the
most common method used, since it achieves a good balance between
performance and availability. RAID-5 requires at least three physical
disks.

Adaptive RAID: Adaptive RAID lets the RAID controller figure out how to
store the parity on the disks. It will choose between RAID-3 and RAID-5,
depending on which RAID set type will perform better with the type of
data being written to the disks.

RAID-6: RAID-6 increases reliability by utilizing 2 parity stripes,
which allows for 2 disk failures within the RAID set before data is
lost. RAID-6 is seen in SATA environments, and solutions that require
long data retention periods, such as data archiving, or disk-based
backup.

Regarding your question about the benefit of using more disks in a RAID
set than the minimum, the answer is you get more available storage and
more \"actuators\" or \"spindles\" for the OS to use. Most RAID arrays
use a maximum of 16 drives within a RAID set due to higher overhead and
diminishing returns in performance when exceeding that many drives. Up
to 8 seems to be a good rule of thumb for RAID-5 and RAID-10. If you
need more space, you can just create another RAID set with the other
disks. As another rule of thumb, try to keep different workload data
types on separate RAID sets. You can use RAID-10 for best performance
everywhere, but most budgets dictate the use of RAID-5 for database data
volumes, with RAID-1 or RAID-10 used on database log volumes. (the
database volumes can be highly random I/O, and the logs tend to be
sequential in nature).

Rebuild times depend on the kind of RAID. If you are using
software-based RAID, then more spindles within the group means longer
rebuild times. If it\'s hardware-based RAID, then rebuild times are
usually dictated by the size of the drives themselves, since the
hardware usually does the sparing in and out of the set. A 146 GB drive
takes longer to rebuild than a 73 GB drive.

See Also: <http://www.pcguide.com/ref/hdd/perf/raid/levels/single.htm>

<http://miracleas.com/BAARF/RAID5_versus_RAID10.txt>

### Exchange 2007 RAID Discussion

*Taken from
<http://www.experts-exchange.com/Storage/Storage_Technology/Q_22545022.html>*
jmulvey123: Exchange 2007 has vastly improved disk performance over
Exchange 2003. You need to be careful of advice that is given by people
who may only have prior experience with Exchange 2003. That being said,
you are still asking a relevant question, as disk performance is crucial
to user\'s perception of the mail service as a whole. Let\'s start the
discussion by talking about user perception

In general, user\'s perception of the mail service is driven by the
response time to opening email messages. Unlike when a user sends an
email, a user is typically staring at the screen and waiting after
double-clicking a message to read it. In Exchange 2003, disk read
transactions were much more common than write transactions. Exchange
2007 can leverage the additional RAM on the server to cache the data and
respond to these reads faster. So I hope you\'re going to put a good
amount of RAM in your server (with 500 users, 5-6 GB should give good
performance).

Anyway, RAID 1+0 has the best read performance, the best write
performance, and the best fault tolerance. RAID 5 would almost certainly
work in your environment due to the fact that your users have such large
mailboxes, it\'s likely that the IOPS load of your users per disk is
going to be relatively low (generally, users with big mailboxes don\'t
tend to open more mail than users with small mailboxes, so your disks
will be less utilized \[per gigabyte\] than typical Exchange
implementations).

But you\'ve also got to consider one very important additional factor
that you haven\'t mentioned: RAID 5 rebuild performance! When one of the
disks in your RAID 5 array dies (and it WILL), read performance (the
metric that matters most for your users!) is absolutely horrible. And
the level (and duration) of horror will be dependent upon the number of
disks in your RAID 5 array. In order words, if you DO do RAID 5, I
wouldn\'t create RAID groups of more than 5 disks.

In my mind, the benefits to RAID 1+0 are obvious: Better performance,
better redundancy. RAID 5 is a substandard solution that might be
necessary if you just don\'t have the budget for 3 GB mailboxes. But my
guess is that if your users are demanding enough to want 3 GB mailboxes,
they\'re going to be unhappy with the unpredictable sacrifices they will
eventually have to make when a RAID 5 rebuild takes place.

I would highly recommend that you look at the Exchange 2007 Storage
Calculator as well. This tool, available from Microsoft, will tell you
exactly what the anticipated IOPS performance of the disk subsystem will
be, and then you can determine for yourself what kind of disk array will
satisfy the performance requirements.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

meyersd: The CX3-20 supports RAID 5, not RAID 6. The CLARiiON has a
number of RAID 5 optimisations that, coupled with the CLARiiON\'s write
cache, means that RAID 5 performance is very close to RAID 1/0
performance for most applications. RAID 1/0 will always have the edge in
an environment where large numbers small write operations dominate.
Generally speaking, however, RAID 5 will out-perform RAID 1/0 on read
operations due to greater read bandwidth, and RAID 1/0 will outperform
RAID 5 when the array is being heavily hit - which is unlikely in your
scenario. This document describes a CX3-20 tested with 8000 users:
<http://www.emc.com/solutions/microsoft/esrp/pdf/esrp_clariion_cx-20_stor_sol_ms_exch_wp_ldv.pdf>

Go with Fibre Channel discs for your Exchange LUNs and save the SATA II
discs for archiving or backup to disc. You can typically expect SATAII
discs to run at around half the speed of the FC discs depending on the
I/O profile. FC discs remain king where the I/O load is random.

jmulvey makes a very important point around rebuild performance - a RAID
1/0 rebuild is around 4 times faster than a RAID 5 rebuild. The
difference is that a RAID 1/0 rebuild simply involves remirroring a disc
pair whilst RAID 5 rebuild involve reconstruction of data and parity
form the existing discs. For me, that is often enough to overcome the
objections of the extra cost involved in using RAID 1/0. Having said
that, RAID 5 works extremely well on a CLARiiON - and I\'ve seen it
running well on a CLARiiON CX700 (the previous generation to your
system) in Exchange 2003 environments with up to 4000 users.

### See Also

[RAID Types - Classifications](http://www.bytepile.com/raid_class.php)
